# ChangeLog for shakespeare

### 2.0.28

* Add support for sub-blocks in mixins [#264](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/264)

### 2.0.27

* Change how embedded templates are located by the compiler. Relative files are now resolved using the Cabal project root, to fix builds of multi-project codebases. [#266](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/266)
* Change how messages are located by the compiler. The message directory is now resolved using the Cabal project root, to fix builds of multi-project codebases. [#266](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/266)

### 2.0.26

* Support `@supports` [#263](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/263)

### 2.0.25.1

* Support for GHC 9.2 and aeson 2 [#260](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/260)

### 2.0.25

* Support for GHC 9.0 [#254](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/254)

### 2.0.24.1

* Derive Lift instances wherever possible [#252](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/252)

### 2.0.24

* Fix build errors with GHC 8.10.1-alpha2 [#245](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/245)

### 2.0.23

* Add support to use caret interpolation in only var shakespeares [#242](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/242)

### 2.0.22

* Add `stextFile` to `Text.Shakespeare.Text`, which can be used to produce `Text` directly in the same way `shamletFile` can be used to produce `Html` directly. [#240](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/240)

### 2.0.21

* Support for GHC 8.8

### 2.0.20
* Restore allowing GHC to detect changes to i18n message files in GHC >= 8.4.

### 2.0.19
* Change of the default behaviour of `*File` functions, they now will add their templates' source file to ghc-dependencies, thus recompiling on templates' changes.

### 2.0.18

* ToJavascript instance for String, Strict and Lazy Text [#227](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/227)

### 2.0.17

* Fix parse pattern-match with operator constructor [#222](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/222)

### 2.0.16

* Updated `encodeToTextBuilder` also escapes single quotes [#221](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/221)

### 2.0.15

* Semigroup instances

### 2.0.14.1

* Handle expressions with infix operator and trailing spaces [#211](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/211)

### 2.0.14

* Fix Cassius and Lucius reload mode [#206](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/206)

### 2.0.13

* Expose Text.Internal.Css [#205](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/205)

### 2.0.12.1

* New contentHash parser breaks hash hrefs [#200](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/200)

### 2.0.12

* Parser fails without space between class and ID (Hamlet) [#197](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/197)

### 2.0.11.2

* Support for template-haskell 2.12.0 [#196](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/196)

### 2.0.11.1

* Handle parsing of trailing semicolon after mixins [#194](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/issues/194)

### 2.0.11

* Export hamletFromString [#191](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/191)

### 2.0.10

* Added `ixhamlet` [#177](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/177)

### 2.0.9

* Better empty HTML tag list

### 2.0.8.1

* Make it work with ghc-8.0 [#181](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/181)

### 2.0.8

* Improve docs in Text.Hamlet [#180](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/180)

### 2.0.7

* Include aeson's JSON encoding and escape `<`, `>` and `&` to avoid XSS attacks

### 2.0.6

* Provide the `Text.Hamlet.Runtime` module

### 2.0.5

* Drop system-filepath

### 2.0.4.1

Fix build for GHC 7.10 [#151](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/151)

### 2.0.4

* [Add multiline literal aligned with bar #148](https://github.com/yesodweb/shakespeare/pull/148)

### 2.0.3

* `cassiusMixin` added

### 2.0.2.2

GHC 7.10 support

### shakesepare 2.0.2

shakespeare-i18n supports message directories.

### Hamlet 0.5.0 (August 29, 2010)

* Use can use parantheses when referencing variables. This allows you to have
functions applied to multiple arguments.

* Added the hamlet' and xhamlet' quasiquoters for generating plain Html
values.

* Added runtime Hamlet support.

* Added "file debug" support. This is a mode that is a drop-in replacement for
external files compiled via template haskell. However, this mode also has a
runtime component, in that is reads your templates at runtime, thus avoiding
the need to a recompile for each template change. This takes a runtime hit
obviously, so it's recommended that you switch back to the compile-time
templates for production systems.

* Added the Cassius and Julius template languages for CSS and Javascript,
respectively. The former is white-space sensitive, whereas the latter is just
a passthrough for raw Javascript code. The big feature in both of them is that
they support variable interpolation just like Hamlet does.

### New in Hamlet 0.4.0

* Internal template parsing is now done via Parsec. This opened the doors for
the other changes mentioned below, but also hopefully gives more meaningful
error messages. There's absolutely no runtime performance hit for this change,
since all parsing is done at compile time, and if there *is* any compile-time
hit, it's too negligible to be noticed.

* Attribute values can now be quoted. This allows you to embed spaces, periods
and pounds in an attribute value. For example:
[$hamlet|%input!type=submit!value="Add new value"|].

* Space-delimited references in addition to period-delimited ones. This only
applies to references in content, not in statements. For example, you could
write [\$hamlet|\$foo bar baz\$|].

* Dollar-sign interpolation is now polymorphic, based on the ToHtml typeclass.
You can now do away with \$string.var\$ and simply type \$var\$. Currently, the
ToHtml typeclass is not exposed, and it only provides instances for String and
Html, though this is open for discussion.

* Added hamletFile and xhamletFile which loads a Hamlet template from an
external file. The file is parsed at compile time, just like a quasi-quoted
template, and must be UTF-8 encoded. Additionally, be warned that the compiler
won't automatically know to recompile a module if the template file gets
changed.
